Part I All about the English sentence

Chapter 1

The Essential Elements of the English

In this chapter:
* Subject and Verb
* Sentence Fragments and Run-Ons
* Time and Number: Agreement Between Subject and Verb
* Perfect verb tenses
* Irregular verbs

Subject and verb

W-P 1-1

1. Before I leave for California, I need to give you a ferewell
2. As soon as the train stops you should take luggage from her.
3. I am doing much harder that usual, because I'm trying to get a
promotion
4. There is no such time in my life when I exercise several times a
week.
5. I lost 4 kg after I took a nutrition course.
6. Pack your truck as soon as the rain stops and we have all the
informatoin we need about the weather.
7. It happened before I started this job and when I was looking for
one.
8. I have disliked you ..
9. Prepare for leaving.
10. has a hyppogriff as a pat.


Chapter 3

W-P 7-1

Balance each of the following sentences.

1. The coffee here is delicious, hot and cheap.
2. The lawyer asked his client to th tell the truth only if he could provide evidence.
3. The rain splashes on the roof and soaks the porch.
4. Soda is filling, full of calories, and flattening.
5. My cooking skills are new, limited to simple dishes and  sometimes boring.
6. Teaching physicians have several jobs, including research, reducing pains and suffering, and teaching other physicians.
7. Their decision was to expand the space, buy all new equipment, and install a new security system.
8. Add the dry ingredients, whip eggs and preheat the oven.
9. Whoever leaves the house last should lower the heat turn lights off and check the stove.
10. David played classical guitar, jazz guitar, and then rhythm and blues.


W-P 7-2

Balance the following sentences.

1. Every day, I walk the trails with my dog, clean the car, and go to work.
2. Jim loves painting the house, planting shrubs, and planning to add another room.
3. Elias looked for a toy, grabbed it, and threw it across the room.
4. My friend eats dinner first, lunch second, and breakfast last.
5. heavily rained;
6. took care of her own household as well
7. stays out of fights.
9. and perfectly attending
10. children get up on time.

W-P 7-3

The following sentences lack balance. Find and correct the errors to restore balance

1. but also punctual
2. truthfully and humbly
3. but also jumps in the leaves.
4. nor well fitting either
5. or build a deck.
6. nor willing to sacrifice his career
7. but it also energizing
8. or I will leave the house before you return
9. but also rainy
10. and doing well in school



W-P 7-4

For each of the following items choose a coordinating conjunction from 
the list below to connect the sentences:

consequently   and   	  besides	  but 	for	further	also
furthermore    however	  moreover	  nor 	or	so	then
therefore      thus	  yet	  

1. , but 
2. so
3. ,but
4. , then
5. , but
6. , but
7. , or
8. , so
9. , and
10. , yet
