Essay on expanding vocabulary

Introduction

Active expression is essential for effective memory, particularly
after passive reading. The student, therefore, should read through the
material he wants to master with close attention and should then
reproduce the main points aloud or as a written summary.

Revising dictionary

When you revise a unit first read it through. Then look at everything
you wrote in your vocabulary notebook or file connected with the
unit. Then and most importantly, try to do something different with
the new words and expressions in that unit in order to help fix them
in your memory.

Revising also helps make the new words active. Encourage this process
by 

* Writing the words and expressions you are trying to learn in a
  sentence relating to your life and interests at the moment.

* Keeping a learning diary in which you note down things that
  particularly interest you about the words you have learnt.

* Watching out for the words and expressions you are trying to learn
  in your general reading of English. If you come across any of them
  in use, write them down in their context in your diary of notebook.

* Writing a paragraph or story linking the words and expressions you
  want to learn. 

Revise what you have done on a regular basis (every week, for
example). Write some notes to remind yourself of when you are going to
revise. Be very selective While considering the following:

* Underline any words and expressions that you had forgotten or were not
  sure about.

* Look at the unit and choose ten words and expressions that you
  particularly want or need to learn. Write them down.

* Look up any words that you selected in Monolingual dictionary. Do
  these words have any other uses or associations that might help you
  learn them? Write anything that appeals to you in an appropriate
  phrase or sentence.

* Perhaps dictionary can also help you find some other words based on
  the same root. 

* Write down words and phrases you wish to learn in a phonetic
  script. With the aid of dictionary of course.

* Write down the words and phrases from the unit in your notebook in a
  different way - put them into a network or a table, perhaps.
* The next day, ask yourself again: How much can I remember?

* Test yourself. Cover a part of word or phrase. Can you remember the
  complete word or phrase?

When you have done all the steps above that you feel will be useful
for you, close your book and file and remind yourself of what you have
been studying. How much can you remember?

